README.md, before:

data-projector
==============
A visual exploration of document similarity and clustering performed on Guardian articles.

Note: the beautiful frontend was [created by DataCritic](ec2-54-88-15-234.compute-1.amazonaws.com).

The dev and prod environments are totes different, so until we come up with a more elegant way of switching out URLs for dev and prod environments, you'll have to manually change the API URLs in these files (look for lines with #dev and #prod):

* src/SidePanel.coffee
* api.py

To rebuild from coffeescript source:

    $ npm install
    $ node_modules/.bin/browserify -t coffeeify src/DataProjector.coffee > DataProjector.js

To serve index.html:

    $ python -m SimpleHTTPServer

You also need to serve the api if you want to access the Guardian-article-content and most-similar-articles endpoints. 
First install all python dependencies and then run the flask server:

    $ virtualenv venv
    $ source venv/bin/activate
    $ pip install -r web-requirements.txt
    $ python api.py

If you are planning do throw down some machine learning biz, you'll want to install all the math libraries in `ml-requirements.txt` instead of just `web-requirements.txt`:

    $ pip install -r ml-requirements.txt

You can run doc2vec and tsne to generate your own `data.json`. An example of doc2vec:

    $ python ml/doc2vec/doc2vec.py --min_count 5 --size 100 --corpus ml/guardian/data/articles-sections-Science

Where `articles-sections-Science` is a file with each line formatted as such `<id> <article content>`, e.g. 56f2cca6d4f5ca1daea21d63 three scientists-two british and one american ...

You can use your own corpus of articles or use Guardian articles from our mongo db:

    $ python ml/guardian/get_training_data.py --sections [Science,Technology]

This will output a flat file, specifically formatted for doc2vec, to `ml/guardian/data/articles-sections-Science-Technology`.

To reduce the dimensionality of doc2vec to 2 or 3 dimensions, use t-sne (which includes k-means clustering):

    $ python ml/tsne/tsne.py --clusters 8 12 --components 3 --doc2vec doc2vec/models/articles-sections-Science/dm1-mincount5-window8-size100-sample1e-05-neg0.d2v

You can also produce a t-sne animation with `--animate` and load t-sne vectors from `ml/tsne/vecs/<doc2vec-model>` using `--load`.

Last, use `dump.py` to generate `data.json` from the doc2vec and t-sne models:

    $ %run dump.py --doc2vec doc2vec/models/articles-sections-Science/dm1-mincount5-window8-size100-sample1e-05-neg0.d2v --components 3

To learn more about available cmdline args for `tsne.py`, `doc2vec.py`, `get_training_data.py`, and `dump.py` use `--help`.

## Deployment

As with other sites on the labs web server, there is currently no automated deployment process tied into git, so to deploy the latest site changes in production, you need to SSH into the dbrslabs.com web server and pull in the latest from Github.

The web server uses key-based SSH authentication, so instead of a password, you use the .pem file in the secret USB drive in the office. To log in (from he same directory you copied the .pem file to):

    ssh -i web-admin.pem ubuntu@dbrslabs.com

Once you're logged in, you'll want to change your directory (cd) to where the guardian-galaxy frontend and backend is:

### Frontend

The frontend is the same repo as the backend, but there are two copies of the repo. To navigate to the frontend:

    cd /home/ubuntu/www/guardian-galaxy/

Then fetch and merge the latest changes with the git pull command:

    git pull origin new-new-layout

### Backend

The backend is the same repo as the frontend, but this one just handles the API part. To navigate to the backend:

    cd /home/ubuntu/www/guardian-galaxy-api/

Then fetch and merge the latest changes with the git pull command:

    git pull origin new-new-layout

### Server(s) Configurations

Both the frontend and backend nginx configurations are defined in the same config file as the main dbrslabs.com site at `/etc/nginx/sites-available/dbrslabs-web`.

The configuration for the frontend is fairly straightforward. It just uses nginx and has defined in the dbrslabs.com site config under `/guardian-galaxy`.

The configuration for the backend API uses uwsgi as a reverse proxy, which nginx is configured to use in its site config under `/guardian-galaxy-api`. 

In addition to the nginx site configuration, uwsgi also uses a few config files to run with nginx and to spin up when the EC2 instance starts up:

`wsgi.py`: Lives at the root of this project, and thus the webroot of guardian-galaxy-api.

`api.ini`: ^ Same.

`deploy\upstart\guardian-galaxy-api.conf`: This lives in /etc/init/guardian-galaxy-api.conf on the server.

`deploy\systemd\guardian-galaxy-api.service`: This is something I wrote for the post-systemd future when we upgrade to Ubuntu 16.

Commit message:

Clarifying deployment of d2v files in prod.

README.md, after:

data-projector
==============
A visual exploration of document similarity and clustering performed on Guardian articles.

Note: the beautiful frontend was [created by DataCritic](ec2-54-88-15-234.compute-1.amazonaws.com).

The dev and prod environments are totes different, so until we come up with a more elegant way of switching out URLs for dev and prod environments, you'll have to manually change the API URLs in these files (look for lines with #dev and #prod):

* src/SidePanel.coffee
* api.py

To rebuild from coffeescript source:

    $ npm install
    $ node_modules/.bin/browserify -t coffeeify src/DataProjector.coffee > DataProjector.js

To serve index.html:

    $ python -m SimpleHTTPServer

You also need to serve the api if you want to access the Guardian-article-content and most-similar-articles endpoints. 
First install all python dependencies and then run the flask server:

    $ virtualenv venv
    $ source venv/bin/activate
    $ pip install -r web-requirements.txt
    $ python api.py

If you are planning do throw down some machine learning biz, you'll want to install all the math libraries in `ml-requirements.txt` instead of just `web-requirements.txt`:

    $ pip install -r ml-requirements.txt

You can run doc2vec and tsne to generate your own `data.json`. An example of doc2vec:

    $ python ml/doc2vec/doc2vec.py --min_count 5 --size 100 --corpus ml/guardian/data/articles-sections-Science

Where `articles-sections-Science` is a file with each line formatted as such `<id> <article content>`, e.g. 56f2cca6d4f5ca1daea21d63 three scientists-two british and one american ...

You can use your own corpus of articles or use Guardian articles from our mongo db:

    $ python ml/guardian/get_training_data.py --sections [Science,Technology]

This will output a flat file, specifically formatted for doc2vec, to `ml/guardian/data/articles-sections-Science-Technology`.

To reduce the dimensionality of doc2vec to 2 or 3 dimensions, use t-sne (which includes k-means clustering):

    $ python ml/tsne/tsne.py --clusters 8 12 --components 3 --doc2vec doc2vec/models/articles-sections-Science/dm1-mincount5-window8-size100-sample1e-05-neg0.d2v

You can also produce a t-sne animation with `--animate` and load t-sne vectors from `ml/tsne/vecs/<doc2vec-model>` using `--load`.

Last, use `dump.py` to generate `data.json` from the doc2vec and t-sne models:

    $ %run dump.py --doc2vec doc2vec/models/articles-sections-Science/dm1-mincount5-window8-size100-sample1e-05-neg0.d2v --components 3

To learn more about available cmdline args for `tsne.py`, `doc2vec.py`, `get_training_data.py`, and `dump.py` use `--help`.

## Deployment

As with other sites on the labs web server, there is currently no automated deployment process tied into git, so to deploy the latest site changes in production, you need to SSH into the dbrslabs.com web server and pull in the latest from Github.

The web server uses key-based SSH authentication, so instead of a password, you use the .pem file in the secret USB drive in the office. To log in (from he same directory you copied the .pem file to):

    ssh -i web-admin.pem ubuntu@dbrslabs.com

Once you're logged in, you'll want to change your directory (cd) to where the guardian-galaxy frontend and backend is:

### Frontend

The frontend is the same repo as the backend, but there are two copies of the repo. To navigate to the frontend:

    cd /home/ubuntu/www/guardian-galaxy/

Then fetch and merge the latest changes with the git pull command:

    git pull origin new-new-layout

### Backend

The backend is the same repo as the frontend, but this one just handles the API part. To navigate to the backend:

    cd /home/ubuntu/www/guardian-galaxy-api/

Then fetch and merge the latest changes with the git pull command:

    git pull origin new-new-layout

The document corpus files are _not_ versioned in git, so after new ones are generated, each corpus's .d2v file needs to be copied to `/home/ubuntu/www/guardian-galaxy/ml/doc2vec/models/final`. Currently, `/home/ubuntu/www/guardian-galaxy-api/ml/doc2vec/models/final` is symlinked to `/home/ubuntu/www/guardian-galaxy/ml/doc2vec/models/final`to save space and to prevent having conflicting versions of the same .d2v files.

### Server(s) Configurations

Both the frontend and backend nginx configurations are defined in the same config file as the main dbrslabs.com site at `/etc/nginx/sites-available/dbrslabs-web`.

The configuration for the frontend is fairly straightforward. It just uses nginx and has defined in the dbrslabs.com site config under `/guardian-galaxy`.

The configuration for the backend API uses uwsgi as a reverse proxy, which nginx is configured to use in its site config under `/guardian-galaxy-api`. 

In addition to the nginx site configuration, uwsgi also uses a few config files to run with nginx and to spin up when the EC2 instance starts up:

`wsgi.py`: Lives at the root of this project, and thus the webroot of guardian-galaxy-api.

`api.ini`: ^ Same.

`deploy\upstart\guardian-galaxy-api.conf`: This lives in /etc/init/guardian-galaxy-api.conf on the server.

`deploy\systemd\guardian-galaxy-api.service`: This is something I wrote for the post-systemd future when we upgrade to Ubuntu 16.
